Mr. Harrington and I was about to say that, as a faculty member, we would chuckle that he pronounced it the association of former students.
You lived at home?
This was bad.
I was a day duck, a lowly, lowly day duck.
Did youngsters get teased?
Oh, oh, teased unmercifully.
You know, you just, you didn't rate.
You weren't alive.
And, of course, you were in the Corps.
Which meant I took a course in military science and drilled with a unit on campus.
I remember I drilled with B-battery, was it field or field artillery, and that was torture because I was,
I was not one of them, you know.
The local boys suffered through that, and we had to do it, and, you know, we just did something terrible.
Did they even then do that old thing that I heard about, look to your left, look to your right, because... You won't want any, they're not going to be here.
Yes, Sam Hopper.
The people who did that were Sam Hopper, Cliff Ransdell,
Who else?
There was a group of people that up, turn this thing off, a group of people over in the Aggieland Inn.
What did they call that thing?
It was the beginning of, oh,
Well, Austin Curley, I'm sure, was over there.
The advising, the counseling.
Yeah, counseling, advising.
It was all done out of the Aggieland Inn.
I guess it wasn't called that.
They had a name for it, but that's what it was.
That was the first elements of any sort of advising and counseling.
which came later.
I didn't have that my freshman year.
That came later.
You're a full-time student, and do you go through four years straight, uninterrupted?
No, I dropped out.
I changed my major the fall of, I stopped and worked for Joe Falk and Brian who ran an auto store the spring of 47.
And then I came back after that and went into business, the College of Business.
I was not an engineer.
I was not a scientist.
It was quite apparent by that time that I was.
And then, by the time I was a senior, they brought in a course called Building Products Marketing.
which lasted for about two years.
But in June of 1950, I was the first and only graduate in building products marketing.
I was able to pick up some of my engineering courses that were normally not, didn't fit into the business curriculum.
But I took a lot of little architecture courses, which I enjoyed.
had kind of a bend in that direction in the business.
Trying to think who might have been in the College of Business.
Of course, Leland, Tom Leland led the thing
Most of my teachers were graduate students.
You lived at home all these years.
Yes.
But you were in the Corps those first two years.
Yes, first two years.
And then dropped out?
Yes.
Now, I didn't actually finish that spring of 47.
I had to go back and pick that up later when I was a senior.
It was kind of an unusual thing happened then.
The Life magazine came down and did a thing on the core and a picture of the core appeared on the cover and I'm in that picture.
And I can tell people that I've been in the movies and I've had my picture on the cover of Life magazine.
I was there with 4,000 other people.
But nevertheless, it was there.
And I can pick myself out because I was standing a little thing off to the side.
And I was standing next to a guy much shorter than I. And you can see me sticking up.
next to him and this little three or four of us on a front row of something there.
What was their, in general, what was their message?
Of that article?
Was it any good, bad, indifferent, or what?
No, it was good, yeah.
It was very,
Good picture.
In fact, I don't know why that picture's not up here and I've looked for it in the core center up here.
That ought to be.
I have a copy of it here and I'm sure they must have one.
1947, you said.
No, no, no, no.
This article was written my senior year, 49.
49, oh.
It would have been, I can't tell you what month.
No, but I was thinking about the picture.
Is that the cover picture?
Yes, I was saying, I went back and had to pick up that military thing and during my senior year, the one I missed my freshman year in 47, is that right?
45, 46?
No, I went a year, that was the last part of my sophomore year that I was not in school.
I had to go back and pick that up when I was a senior.
I was drilled with the Corps and by then it was more relaxed and wasn't quite as bad to be a day duck by then.
In fact, they had a company of day students by then, which was a lot better.
and so that wasn't nearly so bad.
But the number of day students was still quite small compared to the total.
Yes, but big enough to have this.
My brother, my younger brother's in the class of 51, and he was quite active in the Corps, and far more than I... Where was commencement held?
In Guyon Hall.
Now, my particular year, I graduated in June of 50, and we split it.
Omar Bradley was our commencement speaker, and Don Jarvis, who designed the Rudder Tower, and we since died, but he was our valedictorian, and we split.
Half of us were in Guyon Hall, and half of us were in the Assembly Hall, and the speakers swapped during that.
Now,
The year before that, my class in 49 was in Kyle Field.
Now I guess it was raining and we had to go inside then.
Now I would have had a strange event in my life had it not been for my high school superintendent.
I graduated from grade school in Guyon Hall.
We had a graduation ceremony from the seventh grade to high school.
Normally, the high school graduated from Guyon Hall.
My particular year, W.D.
Bunning wanted us to go up to the First Baptist Church, so I graduated there.
But had it not been for him, grade school, high school, and college all graduated from Guyon Hall.
But as it was, it was seventh grade and college too.
During those undergraduate years,
Who were some famous personalities that came to visit the campus?
Well, you know, they made the movie here in 1942 when I was still in high school.
Were you aware of it being?
Oh, yeah, we were in the middle of it all.
Describe that.
There was 1942, Robert Mitchum was here, Martha O'Driscoll, they were the majors.
a fellow by the name of Richard Quinn, Q-U-I-N-N, I think.
Oh, an old man, I can't think of his name now, played the part of an old chemistry professor, somebody you've seen many, many times in the movies.
They were all here, and of course, we'd spend our lives up there gawking.
In fact, there's another place, that's why I said it was in the movies,
one saturday in fact this thing opened with a scene at kyle field and they were talking about the events that you know this thing was centered around there was a stage down on the field and they they had us local people come up and sit in the stadium they fed us a chicken dinner to come up there and sit in the stadium two of my buddies and i were sitting kind of alone and we're
turned around looking at the camera part of that time.
And in one of the posters that appeared on the marquees at the movie houses is this scene looking down across Kyle's view.
And you can see these three little kids, their faces turned around looking at the camera.
So that's why I say I've been in the movies and I've had my picture on Life magazine.
But, you know, they would just see anything.
About how long were they here?
It must have been in the fall because I can remember Martha O'Driscoll coming to one of our football games, you know.
I mean, was it a day or a week?
Oh, no, no, it was weeks.
Oh, yeah, weeks.
They didn't have a world premiere here, did they?
I've never heard that mentioned.
I believe they did.
Is that right?
And y'all got to see Robert Mitchum in the flesh?
Oh, yeah.
Yeah, I guess.
Oh, another one was, oh, dadgummit.
Oh, his daddy was in movies.
In fact, I've seen this guy, he's an old man now, but he was a freshman in the movie, played a freshman.
Where did they stay when they were here?
I think in the Aggieland Inn, I really don't know.
I just assumed they did.
We would have some named bands that would come here.
Such as?
Do you remember?
Glenn Miller, Tommy Dorsey, people of this nature would come.
This was more before World War II.
But they would come and have big, huge dances in Sbiza Hall.
In Sbiza.
And B, what were the key, the big dances?
Oh, well, of course, each, you had the senior ring dance in the spring.
The cotton pageant was a big thing back then.
It was, you know, promoting the cotton world.
And then each of the military organizations had theirs during the very formal, very elite things.
As a matter of fact, when, you know, I ultimately went to when I first knew you over under, when I worked under Wayne Stark, we would go to those things then, you know, as chaperones, if they were called that by then.
Very, very formal type thing.
And particularly back in the 40s, there would be long dresses.
Oh, yeah.
And as I've interviewed others, they tell me over and over about the good conduct, that the women all loved it.
They felt like they were treated like true celebrities.
and that the men all said they were on their best manners.
Oh, very definitely.
We would dress to go to a football game.
You'd put on, I mean, a suit to go to, and women that wore their nice clothes and mums and whatnot, and I don't know when that disintegrated.
All right, what was A&M in those days, what was A&M doing correctly?
What was A&M doing right?
Oh gosh, I think, you mean academically or socially or any, I think everything they did was probably, you know, it was such a, of course during the depression, people came here to get off the farm, you know, they'd do anything to get to come to, you know, to A&M.
Things were pretty desolate out there somewhere.
And so I think, you know, aside from the hazing, which got pretty brutal sometime,
It was an area where you learn to be a real person, just the association of being with other people, which is what the Army did for a lot of people during World War II, you know, this brought them into, if you can say anything good about a war, well, it brought people into close associations with other people like-minded for a common cause.
And A&M did that, and I think the dignity of the John Paul Abbots and the others were probably a remarkable teaching tool just in being alive from day to day.
You asked about the famous people.
One of the famous people actually stayed at this house.
dated a boy that we knew, and she later, it was Catherine Grandstaff, who was later Kathy Grant, married Bing Crosby.
But she stayed here, and we got to know her.
And in fact, I remember she came back later, she was Miss Texas or something, and she'd gotten a new Ford convertible, I think, a 50 model, and came by and showed it to us.
And she referred to that car
She still had it when she went to California and married Bing, and she referred to it.
It had 80 or 90,000 miles on it, and I thought that was kind of strange that she would still have it, but a real proud.
All right, you graduate, and then when do you go to work for A&M?
I went to work for A&M in 1954.
Believe it or not, I responded to an ad in a Houston paper for a job that was available here.
I had, during this period after World War II, they drafted people through May of 1946.
I turned 18 two weeks after the World War II draft died.
I turned 18 at the end of May.
That draft bill died the middle of May of 46.
So I was free and clear on that.
Now, some of my high school buddies who had birthdays before that were, you know, drafted and they went into the occupational stuff.
None of them were in the war or in the fighting.
But then the draft started up again in 78.
And I joined the National Guard.
You said 78, 48.
48, 48.
I joined the National Guard
I think school did not exempt you at that time, if I'm not mistaken.
So a lot of us joined the guard to be able to stay here and finish our school.
And when I graduated, of course, the Korean War broke out immediately.
And I took a job in Houston right after I graduated selling kitchens or something down there.
and realized this unit was going to be called up, you know, at the 49th Armored Division.
I came home and worked with a guy who was the unit administrator out here, a vet student, and he was going to graduate, I guess, in 51.
And I decided I could be the unit administrator out there, and I worked with him that whole year out there waiting for this thing to be called up, and it never was.
Texas had two divisions, the 36th and the 49th, and five other states had two divisions, and all the other, Illinois and New York and California, had one of their divisions call up.
Texas never did.
So I was never on active duty anywhere.
And I was the unit administrator out there and just stayed on.
I mean, you know, it was a state job.
And then I saw this ad in the paper for someone to do administrative work in a small college community, I think, somewhere.
And I thought, that's got, ain't no other besides A&M.
So I answered the ad.
And sure enough, it was the chief clerk for the engineering experiment station under Dr.
A.W.
Mello, and Howard Barlow was the dean of engineering at the time.
So I took that job and, well, I went to St.
Louis for a couple of years
Calvin Guest and Earl Cunningham, you might remember them.
And they got me to go up there and install laundry, corn-operated laundry equipment and government housing stuff up in St.
Louis.
When was that?
This was, we left here in the June of 56.
Because they were almost the world pioneers.
That's right, they were.
I knew them when they were poor.
They were struggling for money and I've been with them to the St.
Louis bankers trying to finance this thing.
In fact, Calvin left A&M at the same time I did.
He went full time with this American coin meter thing.
So my wife and I and our two brand new children went up and lived in St.
Louis and worked in these
Oh, it was slum renovation where the government would come in and build these big grand houses and we'd put coin-operated, well, I should write a book on that.
Can't imagine what those people did to those places and our coin-operated laundry equipment.
Well, we dealt with that a couple of years and we decided we didn't wanna make our lives in St.
Louis and I came back and worked then with Roy Hegler,
Over in the Ag Experiment Station at the time, I was their traveling auditor and whatnot.
And let's see, Rudder came in to be president about that time and I was involved with the opening of this Stiles Farm Foundation at Thrall.
Came in and then I went back and I got into an unusual situation there where I was
writing letters and answering them myself.
I'd come over here and write a letter for Mr. Rudder so you know about all this sort of stuff and then take the letter over there with R.E.
Patterson who was dean of agriculture at the time and met with and I remember I had lunch one time with a young board member
He was here for a thousand years from up at Grandview.
Clyde Wells.
He was just a junior board member.
I remember one time over there and dealing with this thing and the lawyer was over there.
But anyhow, on this letter writing thing, we'd meet with the lawyer and he'd respond to the letter that I had written for Mr. Rudder.
And he's a less composed letter now.
So I was writing and answering my own letters, you know, about that thing.
But any of that lasted working with the Ag Experiment Station until 63 when I went with Stark over as assistant director and business manager.
All right, let's reach back.
Describe your impression of Earl Rudder as a person to work with.
I...
found him later to be someone who you could respect.
When he first got here, he didn't enjoy a very good reputation.
He was pretty firm and, you know, this way and that.
But you came to appreciate those very virtues later.
Because I can remember sitting with Wayne and I went over and talked with him for some reason or other in his office just before
all this Kent State thing came about, and he was going to deal with a group of those folks coming here, and he was quite concerned about it.
As a matter of fact, you may remember Alfred Tillman, who was the sound man.
He and I went into Rudder's office and put in a tape recorder into Mr. Rudder's desk.
Well, of course, I was just there.
It was kind of along for the ride, so that if it became necessary, he could begin taping the conversation with these folks that, you know, it didn't become necessary, but he was prepared for it.
Now, as far as you recall, were these A&M students, faculty, staff, or were these off-campus folks?
Off-campus, off-campus folks.
I've forgotten now who they were.
I'm sure this is all documented somewhere, of course.
I remember the ground floor of the system building, they bolted all of those shut to limit any access.
This Kent State thing was still very fresh and it was a big problem.
And I can remember they bolted all of those ground floor windows shut in the system building.
And Mr. Rudder was concerned about this meeting, but it turned out okay.
Nothing came of it and it all died.
You joined Wayne Stark in 63.
63.
Summarize Wayne Stark.
Describe Wayne Stark to somebody that has, maybe somebody that didn't know what he was.
A&M will always owe Wayne Stark something for the time and devotion that he spent and to the frustration quite often of Mr. Rudder.
Mr. Rudder told him one time that he had a diary of the typewriter
that Wayne would write these long, long, long letters, but from a very genuine effort to accomplish something that he thought was good, this, as a matter of fact, was written up in a Texas Monthly thing that you may have read of this very relationship between Stark and Rudder that Mr. Rudder felt frustrated sometime, all these things that Wayne wanted to do because they were contrary to, you know, the
an all-male school and this type thing, and Wayne was trying to drag whatever culture he could.
Well, you worked with him as an advisor back there, you know.
But I always respected Wayne.
He tended to be a little talkative sometimes, but you had to do that to accomplish what he wanted to do, and I think Wayne got his
deserved later on when they, who was it under, he was a special assistant of the whatever.
What were his cherished goals?
Wayne's?
Well, I think to do whatever he could, now on a school basis.
Yeah, that's what I mean.
He had a lot of excellent goals with individual students, you know.
But with the school,
just to elevate the cultural standing of the school.
I mean, A&M just didn't have much.
Well, let's say Texas didn't have much.
I don't mean the University of Texas, but the state of Texas was just lacking in a lot of these things.
And Wayne just, I think, knocked himself out.
All the town hall performances and whatnot that were brought here were
excellent taste and he spent an awful lot of time he'd go to New York and then just before Christmas every year and spend time with the booking agents and would pick up you know these big name people always had a night off somewhere and that's when we'd get them to come here they were on their way from Houston to Dallas or something and a big thing and uh
Wayne would have just worked and worked to get those things here.
And then, you know, the organizational staff that he had to make this thing work here among the students, I think, was just phenomenal how he got students involved.
How did he spot those bright, capable students as freshmen?
Because he would get them involved early.
He just had a feel.
He would pick up
some boy that was just off the farm somewhere you know and he had an intuition somehow would see something in that kid and just bring him out and he he sent these farm kids I mean to New York you know to meet with the
Well, John Hagler over here, among others, and there's another lawyer up there, Samuelson or something, Larry Foraker, you know, he'd send these kids off to these people in these places and they would never, never would have had the opportunity if Wayne just didn't make them go.
And then they were always grateful later because they would leave here.
What am I doing up here?
I can't do this.
But invariably these people would come out shining.
I remember now the concerts, the lectures,
The leadership trips to Houston and Dallas, I think those were the only places you went, didn't they?
Yeah, right.
What were some other courses?
Scona was a big thing.
Let's see, not long ago I mentioned to somebody who I didn't realize how they would misunderstand
And before a mixed audience, I asked somebody if he had ever gotten the green couch treatment for Mr. Sharp.
And some women in the room interpreted the green couch in a different way.
But that was standard lingo, wasn't it?
When you get those kids in there and put them on that old... Yeah, yes, sir.
Electrum.
Yes, sir, rebob.
He had one of the first...
hands-free phones you know.
He'd set that thing going and carry on a conversation with everybody in the room with some senator or somebody and you know Robert Kennedy was here one time and oh he had dealt with him in a very close way and John who's the
Galbraith.
John Kenneth Galbraith.
Yeah, John Kenneth Galbraith was, was he an economist or what, yeah.
Hard economist.
And he was here, people of this nature, you know, he'd bring here and entertain them and get these kids involved in a very, I don't want to say an intimate way, but a very close relationship with these folks.
And which, you know, I thought was just remarkable that they just wouldn't have done this any other way.
Officially, when you joined him, Wayne Stark and the MSC reported to Dean Hannigan.
Yes.
Dean of Students or whatever the title was then.
But in fact, the MSC related to the whole campus because I, as a faculty member, quite early got drafted to
be on the advisory council or whatever it was called, and that happened to many, many others.
So it involved the whole campus.
As you recall those years, how well financed was the MSC?
Did it have a tight budget?
Pretty tight, yes.
We were totally dependent on...
student fees that's back when we had seven or eight thousand students and I can remember counting students one by one you know the fees were going to get now at that time we operated of course the food services in the building which we got the profits off of that and of course the hotel yeah I can remember we did the
the furniture in the main lounge there, and this was a big, big deal, $49,000, you know, and this, you know, this was a big deal.
Now, what was your duty, your specific task?
Well, I was, the title was assistant director and business manager, mostly was the business aspect of it.
In that angle, what part?